First thing first, the items that I used.

    Arduino board : Arduino Uno board
    Microcontroller to be programmed : ATMEGA328 (to be standalone chip)
    Operating System on computer : Ubuntu 14.04.1
    IDE version : arduino 1:1.0.5+dfsg2-2
    Sketch used 1 : Nick Gammon's arduino board detector sketch
    Sketch used 2 : Nick Gammon's arduino board programmer sketch



Steps That I did:

I.Burn the bootloader

1. I wired my standalone chip (ATMEGA328) as described in minimal wiring section of  Nick Gammon's forum

2. Connected my Arduino and the breadboard as described in the Test the chip section of the page.

3. Uploaded the latest version of the board detector sketch of Nick Gammon's.

4. The output was not very good though. It said that my chip had an unrecognized signature.
( Here again another problem cropped up, with the minimal wiring on the breadboard, I just had "Atmega chip detector" displayed on the serial monitor, nothing more. So I just tried inserting a 16 Mhz crystal in pins 9 and 10 on the breadboard along with 22 pF capacitors as shown again in the same page under "Chip not detected" section.)

5. Now the output displayed in the serial monitor was different, but not good. It said the chip on the bread board had a unrecognised signature. It showed the signature to be "0x1e 0x95 0x14".

6. I went ahead, Now I uploaded the latest atmega board programmer sketch (the one that I mentioned in my previous post was not recent, so It failed to compile)

7. I wanted the Lilypad bootloader, so the necessary keyboard inputs were given appropriately through the serial monitor.
('L')

II.Upload a sketch on the new atmega328 with bootloader using the arduino uno as the programmer.

1. Uploaded the ArduinoISP sketch from the arduino ide on the arduino uno board.

2. I modified the avrdude.conf file as described here in this instructable.
( replaced the atmega328p signature "0x1e 0x95 0x0F" with atmega328 signature "0x1e 0x95 0x14")

3. Chose the serial port, Programmer (Tools -> Programmer -> Arduino As ISP) and Board (Tools -> Board -> Lily Pad arduino w/ ATmega328)

4. Opened the Led blink sketch from File -> Examples -> basic -> blink and uploaded the sketch (File -> Upload using programmer). This I think is crucial, since the upload button on the IDE uploads the sketch to the arduino uno board and not to the breadboard.

5. Edited the avrdude.conf file to its original form.

It works.
